extras/github_resources/readme_files/backups.md, before:

# How I manage backups

I upload all my non-sensitive files to GitHub, which means I have a backup of them, but also I can check my config online for most things.  I can edit the files locally or edit the config on GitHub and then make my HA instance pull the updates so I can remotely reconfigure the machine if needed.  Guide to how I'm doing this coming soon.

I use TravisCI to check my config every time it is pushed to Github.  This runs a program that checks the configuration is sound and alerts me if it is not.  Because this requires a `secrets.yaml` file I have added a fake version of this in the extras/github_resources folder.  My `.travis.yml` script then moves this file to the correct place before running the program to prevent false negatives.  The redacted version of `secrets.yaml` is identical in format and layout to my real `secrets.yaml` so you can see how it is organised.

In addition to backing up my config here, I also backup my entire /.homeassistant/ directory (including all my configuration files and secrets.yaml etc) to dropbox using the method described [here](https://github.com/martikainen87/Home-Automation/wiki/Backup-your-configuration-to-Dropbox) .  This means that should I have a total system failure, I can simply reinstall debian, reinstall Homeassistant, and drop my full working configuration back in.

Commit message:

Repo tidy (#456)
* Update README.md

* Update pull-from-github.sh

* Update upgrade-hass.sh

* Update backups.md

* Update hardware_software.md

* Update README.md

* Update scenes.yaml

* Update alexa.yaml

* Update notifications.yaml

* Update hardware.yaml

* Update interface.yaml

* Update bedroom_alarm_clock.yaml

* Update boys_alarm_clock.yaml

* Update girls_alarm_clock.yaml

* Update occupancy.yaml

extras/github_resources/readme_files/backups.md, after:

# How I manage backups

I upload all my non-sensitive files to GitHub, which means I have a backup of them, but also I can check my config online for most things.  I can edit the files locally or edit the config on GitHub and then make my HA instance pull the updates so I can remotely reconfigure the machine if needed.  Guide to how I'm doing this coming soon.

The Master Branch of my repo is protected, so I cannot push updates to it and must merge code in a PR.  I use TravisCI to check my config every time a PR is created this runs a program that checks the configuration is sound.  If the configuration check fails I cannot merge the PR.  Because this requires a `secrets.yaml` file I have added a fake version of this in the extras/github_resources folder.  My `.travis.yml` script then moves this file to the correct place before running the program to prevent false negatives.  The redacted version of `secrets.yaml` is identical in format and layout to my real `secrets.yaml` so you can see how it is organised.

In addition to backing up my config here, I also backup my entire /.homeassistant/ directory (including all my configuration files and secrets.yaml etc) to dropbox using the method described [here](https://github.com/martikainen87/Home-Automation/wiki/Backup-your-configuration-to-Dropbox) .  This means that should I have a total system failure, I can simply reinstall debian, reinstall Homeassistant, and drop my full working configuration back in.
