extras/github_resources/readme_files/configuration.md, before:

# My configuration:

See in the repo for all of my non-sensitive configuration files.  I've been playing with HA for a while now and have made a fair few changes, and have now decided to organise my files in a package-based system.

I have put a comment block at the top of each file that hopefully will explain what each one is for, should anyone want to use this repo as a learning tool, or for anyone that wants to copy any of the packages.

#How it works:

All your homeassistant files are contained within your `/path/to/.homeassistant/` directory.  Inside this directory are some files that can't be moved such as `secrets.yaml` , `known_devices.yaml` and (most importantly) `configuration.yaml` .

There are various ways to split the configuration.yaml in to smaller chunks with !include statements, this is detailed here > https://home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/splitting_configuration/

I've chosen to split the configuration in to packages (detailed here > https://home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/packages/ ), and create devices or utilities by grouping components and sensors together.  These are placed in a folder called `packages/` .  Where a config item is really long (like the list if ir codes to control my AV devices) I have used includes to keep things neat.

I then have an `extras/` folder that contains my bash scripts, includes and github resources (including a redacted version of my `secrets.yaml` ).  I also have a `private/` folder that contains things relevant to my installation but I don't want to upload to github as they contain sensitive information and sanitised versions will be of no use to anyone.

The end result looks like this:

```
.homeassistant/
    |
    |- configuration.yaml
    |- secrets.yaml
    |- travis.yml
    |- [other unmovable configuration files and directories]
    |
    |-----/private/
    |      |
    |      |- [useful things that don't belong on github]
    |
    |
    |-----/packages/
    |      |
    |      |[file per package]
    |
    |
    |-----/extras/
           |
           |-----/bash_scripts/
           |      |
           |      |-[useful scripts that can be called from homeassistant]
           |
           |
           |-----/github_resources/
                  |
                  |- secrets_redacted.yaml
                  |
                  |-[readme files, screenshots and guides]
```

Commit message:

Quick fix (#235)
* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update send-to-github.sh

* Update configuration.md

* Update screenshots.md

extras/github_resources/readme_files/configuration.md, after:

# My configuration:

See in the repo for all of my non-sensitive configuration files.  I've been playing with HA for a while now and have made a fair few changes, and have now decided to organise my files in a package-based system.

I have put a comment block at the top of each file that hopefully will explain what each one is for, should anyone want to use this repo as a learning tool, or for anyone that wants to copy any of the packages.

# How it works:

All your homeassistant files are contained within your `/path/to/.homeassistant/` directory.  Inside this directory are some files that can't be moved such as `secrets.yaml` , `known_devices.yaml` and (most importantly) `configuration.yaml` .

There are various ways to split the configuration.yaml in to smaller chunks with !include statements, this is detailed here > https://home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/splitting_configuration/

I've chosen to split the configuration in to packages (detailed here > https://home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/packages/ ), and create devices or utilities by grouping components and sensors together.  These are placed in a folder called `packages/` .  Where a config item is really long (like the list if ir codes to control my AV devices) I have used includes to keep things neat.

I then have an `extras/` folder that contains my bash scripts, includes and github resources (including a redacted version of my `secrets.yaml` ).  I also have a `private/` folder that contains things relevant to my installation but I don't want to upload to github as they contain sensitive information and sanitised versions will be of no use to anyone.

The end result looks like this:

```
.homeassistant/
    |
    |- configuration.yaml
    |- secrets.yaml
    |- travis.yml
    |- [other unmovable configuration files and directories]
    |
    |-----/private/
    |      |
    |      |- [useful things that don't belong on github]
    |
    |
    |-----/packages/
    |      |
    |      |[file per package]
    |
    |
    |-----/extras/
           |
           |-----/bash_scripts/
           |      |
           |      |-[useful scripts that can be called from homeassistant]
           |
           |
           |-----/github_resources/
           |      |
           |      |- secrets_redacted.yaml
           |      |
           |      |-[readme files, screenshots and guides]
           |
           |-----/includes/
                  |
                  |-[included files for long configuration options]
```
